---
layout:       post
title:        "Is privacy still a thing on the Internet?"
date:         2016-08-25
author:       "Samay Shamdasani"
categories:   privacy
tags:         
comments:     true
list:         true


# POSTS LIST
class:       "style2"                         # config bg-color to post list card (1..6)
list-image:  "/assets/images/privacy.jpg"       # config image to post list card (1..6)
description: >                                # config description to post list card
  The case against your personal information.

# POST HEADER
# header-image: # "/assets/images/pic13.jpg"      # config image to post header
---
This is the 21st century. And you and your data is less secure than ever before.

Think about it: we keep our files in the cloud, we communicate via text, we look for answers by searching on google. What don't we do that doesn't require some sort of interaction with technology? The fact is, that every single second, this information is being compiled in some giant computer in the middle of nowhere, and this compiled information is your data.

If I wanted to know who <i> you </i> are, all I'd have to do is look at your files, see what you say and search, and look on social media.

Whenever you go on a site, internet surveillance is beyond what pictures you like, and what sites you visit, it's about how long you visit a website, what device you are on, what browser you use, and your location. Every click builds an online profile about you, and you have no control over it.

I don't want to scare you, but this site uses Google Analytics. That means, through Google, I can see much more than I want to. It gives me the usual page counts, but it does indeed show me what city or country you are from. Of course, I can't map it directly to a person, but I'm pretty sure Google can. Would they ever do it? The world may never know.

And even beyond location, almost every device has a microphone. Imagine how unsafe you are if Google or Apple has the capability to flip a switch and listen in.

Technology is probably my favorite innovation, but like everything else, it comes with a compromise. I guess what I'm trying to say here is that you should be aware of what is going on the next time you unlock your phone.

Contribute to the discussion below, I'm eager to hear your thoughts.
